doc/usage/al2023.md, before:

# Amazon Linux 2023

## Template variables

<!-- template-variable-table-boundary -->
| Variable | Description |
| - | - |
| `enable_accelerator` | Vendor that provides the GPU or accelerator hardware. Currently we support Neuron and NVIDIA. |
| `ami_component_description` |  |
| `ami_description` |  |
| `ami_name` |  |
| `ami_regions` |  |
| `ami_users` |  |
| `arch` |  |
| `associate_public_ip_address` |  |
| `aws_access_key_id` |  |
| `aws_region` |  |
| `aws_secret_access_key` |  |
| `aws_session_token` |  |
| `binary_bucket_name` |  |
| `binary_bucket_region` |  |
| `containerd_version` |  |
| `creator` |  |
| `enable_fips` | Install openssl and enable fips related kernel parameters |
| `encrypted` |  |
| `iam_instance_profile` | The name of an IAM instance profile to launch the EC2 instance with. |
| `enable_efa` | Valid options are ```true``` or ```false```. Wheather or not to install the software needed to use AWS Elastic Fabric Adapter (EFA) network interfaces. |
| `instance_type` |  |
| `kms_key_id` |  |
| `kubernetes_build_date` |  |
| `kubernetes_version` |  |
| `launch_block_device_mappings_volume_size` |  |
| `nvidia_driver_major_version` | To be used only when ```enable_accelerator = nvidia```. Driver version to install, depends on what is available in NVIDIA repository. |
| `remote_folder` | Directory path for shell provisioner scripts on the builder instance |
| `runc_version` |  |
| `security_group_id` |  |
| `source_ami_filter_name` |  |
| `source_ami_id` |  |
| `source_ami_owners` |  |
| `ssh_interface` | If using ```session_manager```, you need to specify a non-minimal ami as the minimal version does not have the SSM agent installed. |
| `ssh_username` |  |
| `ssm_agent_version` | Version of the SSM agent to install from the S3 bucket provided by the SSM agent project, such as ```latest```. If empty, the latest version of the SSM agent available in the Amazon Linux core repositories will be installed. |
| `subnet_id` |  |
| `temporary_key_pair_type` |  |
| `temporary_security_group_source_cidrs` |  |
| `user_data_file` | Path to a file that will be used for the user data when launching the instance. |
| `volume_type` |  |
| `working_dir` | Directory path for ephemeral resources on the builder instance |
<!-- template-variable-table-boundary -->

## Accelerated images

One can build images that contain Neuron or Nvidia drivers and runtime configuration. To build Neuron image execute:

```
make k8s=1.29 os_distro=al2023 enable_accelerator=neuron enable_efa=true
```

To build NVIDIA image execute:
```
make k8s=1.29 os_distro=al2023 enable_accelerator=nvidia enable_efa=true
```

One can pass the NVIDIA driver major version using the following:
```
make k8s=1.29 os_distro=al2023 enable_accelerator=nvidia enable_efa=true nvidia_driver_major_version=560
```
To see which driver versions are available, one can check the NVIDIA AL2023 [repository](https://developer.download.nvidia.com/compute/cuda/repos/amzn2023/).

Commit message:

templates(al23): pass build image for nodeadm (#1971)

doc/usage/al2023.md, after:

# Amazon Linux 2023

## Template variables

<!-- template-variable-table-boundary -->
| Variable | Description |
| - | - |
| `ami_component_description` |  |
| `ami_description` |  |
| `ami_name` |  |
| `ami_regions` |  |
| `ami_users` |  |
| `arch` |  |
| `associate_public_ip_address` |  |
| `aws_access_key_id` |  |
| `aws_region` |  |
| `aws_secret_access_key` |  |
| `aws_session_token` |  |
| `binary_bucket_name` |  |
| `binary_bucket_region` |  |
| `containerd_version` |  |
| `creator` |  |
| `enable_accelerator` | Vendor that provides the GPU or accelerator hardware. Currently we support Neuron and NVIDIA. |
| `enable_efa` | Valid options are ```true``` or ```false```. Wheather or not to install the software needed to use AWS Elastic Fabric Adapter (EFA) network interfaces. |
| `enable_fips` | Install openssl and enable fips related kernel parameters |
| `encrypted` |  |
| `iam_instance_profile` | The name of an IAM instance profile to launch the EC2 instance with. |
| `instance_type` |  |
| `kms_key_id` |  |
| `kubernetes_build_date` |  |
| `kubernetes_version` |  |
| `launch_block_device_mappings_volume_size` |  |
| `nodeadm_build_image` | Image to use as a build environment for nodeadm |
| `nvidia_driver_major_version` | To be used only when ```enable_accelerator = nvidia```. Driver version to install, depends on what is available in NVIDIA repository. |
| `remote_folder` | Directory path for shell provisioner scripts on the builder instance |
| `runc_version` |  |
| `security_group_id` |  |
| `source_ami_filter_name` |  |
| `source_ami_id` |  |
| `source_ami_owners` |  |
| `ssh_interface` | If using ```session_manager```, you need to specify a non-minimal ami as the minimal version does not have the SSM agent installed. |
| `ssh_username` |  |
| `ssm_agent_version` | Version of the SSM agent to install from the S3 bucket provided by the SSM agent project, such as ```latest```. If empty, the latest version of the SSM agent available in the Amazon Linux core repositories will be installed. |
| `subnet_id` |  |
| `temporary_key_pair_type` |  |
| `temporary_security_group_source_cidrs` |  |
| `user_data_file` | Path to a file that will be used for the user data when launching the instance. |
| `volume_type` |  |
| `working_dir` | Directory path for ephemeral resources on the builder instance |
<!-- template-variable-table-boundary -->

## Accelerated images

One can build images that contain Neuron or Nvidia drivers and runtime configuration. To build Neuron image execute:

```
make k8s=1.29 os_distro=al2023 enable_accelerator=neuron enable_efa=true
```

To build NVIDIA image execute:
```
make k8s=1.29 os_distro=al2023 enable_accelerator=nvidia enable_efa=true
```

One can pass the NVIDIA driver major version using the following:
```
make k8s=1.29 os_distro=al2023 enable_accelerator=nvidia enable_efa=true nvidia_driver_major_version=560
```
To see which driver versions are available, one can check the NVIDIA AL2023 [repository](https://developer.download.nvidia.com/compute/cuda/repos/amzn2023/).
