nodeadm/doc/examples.md, before:

# Examples

---

## Merging multiple configuration objects

When using the IMDS configuration source (`--config-source=imds://user-data`),
`nodeadm` will merge any configuration objects it discovers before configuring your node.

With the following user data:
```
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: multipart/mixed; boundary="BOUNDARY"

--BOUNDARY
Content-Type: application/node.eks.aws

---
apiVersion: node.eks.aws/v1alpha1
kind: NodeConfig
spec:
  cluster:
    name: my-cluster
    apiServerEndpoint: https://example.com
    certificateAuthority: Y2VydGlmaWNhdGVBdXRob3JpdHk=
    cidr: 10.100.0.0/16

--BOUNDARY
Content-Type: application/node.eks.aws

---
apiVersion: node.eks.aws/v1alpha1
kind: NodeConfig
spec:
  kubelet:
    config:
      shutdownGracePeriod: 30s
      featureGates:
        DisableKubeletCloudCredentialProviders: true

--BOUNDARY--
```

The configuration `nodeadm` will use is:
```
---
apiVersion: node.eks.aws/v1alpha1
kind: NodeConfig
spec:
  cluster:
    name: my-cluster
    apiServerEndpoint: https://example.com
    certificateAuthority: Y2VydGlmaWNhdGVBdXRob3JpdHk=
    cidr: 10.100.0.0/16
  kubelet:
    config:
      shutdownGracePeriod: 30s
      featureGates:
        DisableKubeletCloudCredentialProviders: true
```

The configuration objects will be merged in the order they appear in the MIME multi-part document, meaning the value in the lattermost configuration object will take precedence.

---
## Using instance ID as node name

When the `InstanceIdNodeName` feature gate is enabled, `nodeadm` will use the EC2 instance's ID (e.g. `i-abcdefg1234`) as the name of the `Node` object created by `kubelet`, instead of the EC2 instance's private DNS Name (e.g. `ip-192-168-1-1.ec2.internal`).
There are several benefits of doing this:
1. Your `Node` names are more meaningful in, for example, the output of `kubectl get nodes`.
2. The `Node` name, which is in the critical path of `kubelet` authentication, is non-volatile. While the private DNS name of an instance may change, its ID cannot.
3. The `ec2:DescribeInstances` permission can be removed from your node role's IAM policy; this is no longer necessary.

### To enable this feature, you will need to:
1. [Create a new worker node IAM role](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/create-node-role.html#create-worker-node-role)
    - ⚠️ **Note**: you should create a new role when migrating an existing cluster to avoid authentication failures on existing nodes.
2. [Update the `aws-auth` ConfigMap with above created role](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/auth-configmap.html#aws-auth-users). For example:
```
- groups:
  - system:bootstrappers
  - system:nodes
  rolearn: $ROLE_CREATED_ABOVE
  username: system:node:{{SessionName}}
```
3. Enable the feature gate in your user data:
```
---
apiVersion: node.eks.aws/v1alpha1
kind: NodeConfig
spec:
  featureGates:
    InstanceIdNodeName: true
```

---
## Enabling fast image pull (experimental)

When the `FastImagePull` feature gate is enabled, `nodeadm` will configure the container runtime to pull and unpack container images in parallel.

This has the benefit of potentially decreasing image pull time, at the cost of increased CPU, memory and EBS usage during image pull.

⚠️ **Note**: This flag will be ignored on instance sizes below a certain vCPU and memory threshold.

### To enable this feature:
1. Ensure your instance type is a larger instance type. Currently we recommend a 2xlarge instance or larger, but that value may change.
2. Make sure your workloads can tolerate the increased CPU and memory usage during image pull. This makes the most sense when you need to pull a very large container image early in a node's lifecycle, before other workloads are running.
3. Ensure you've configured additional EBS throughput for your instance root volume. We recommend at least 600MiB/s throughput. Below that value, you may see longer image pull times with this flag. Higher values up to 1000MiB/s and 16k IOPs may result in better performance.
4. Enable the feature gate in your user data:
```
---
apiVersion: node.eks.aws/v1alpha1
kind: NodeConfig
spec:
  featureGates:
    FastImagePull: true
```

---

## Configuring `containerd`

Additional `containerd` configuration can be supplied in your `NodeConfig`. The values in your inline TOML document will overwrite any default value set by `nodeadm`.

The following configuration object:
```
---
apiVersion: node.eks.aws/v1alpha1
kind: NodeConfig
spec:
  cluster: ...
  containerd:
    config: |
      [plugins."io.containerd.grpc.v1.cri".containerd]
      discard_unpacked_layers = false
```

Can be used to disable deletion of unpacked image layers in the `containerd` content store.

---

## Modifying container RLIMITs

If your workload requires different RLIMITs than the defaults, you can use the `baseRuntimeSpec` option of `containerd` to override them:

```
---
apiVersion: node.eks.aws/v1alpha1
kind: NodeConfig
spec:
  cluster: ...
  containerd:
    baseRuntimeSpec:
      process:
        rlimits:
          - type: RLIMIT_NOFILE
            soft: 1024
            hard: 1024
```

Commit message:

chore: update InstanceIdNodeName doc to recommend access entries

nodeadm/doc/examples.md, after:

# Examples

---

## Merging multiple configuration objects

When using the IMDS configuration source (`--config-source=imds://user-data`),
`nodeadm` will merge any configuration objects it discovers before configuring your node.

With the following user data:
```
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: multipart/mixed; boundary="BOUNDARY"

--BOUNDARY
Content-Type: application/node.eks.aws

---
apiVersion: node.eks.aws/v1alpha1
kind: NodeConfig
spec:
  cluster:
    name: my-cluster
    apiServerEndpoint: https://example.com
    certificateAuthority: Y2VydGlmaWNhdGVBdXRob3JpdHk=
    cidr: 10.100.0.0/16

--BOUNDARY
Content-Type: application/node.eks.aws

---
apiVersion: node.eks.aws/v1alpha1
kind: NodeConfig
spec:
  kubelet:
    config:
      shutdownGracePeriod: 30s
      featureGates:
        DisableKubeletCloudCredentialProviders: true

--BOUNDARY--
```

The configuration `nodeadm` will use is:
```
---
apiVersion: node.eks.aws/v1alpha1
kind: NodeConfig
spec:
  cluster:
    name: my-cluster
    apiServerEndpoint: https://example.com
    certificateAuthority: Y2VydGlmaWNhdGVBdXRob3JpdHk=
    cidr: 10.100.0.0/16
  kubelet:
    config:
      shutdownGracePeriod: 30s
      featureGates:
        DisableKubeletCloudCredentialProviders: true
```

The configuration objects will be merged in the order they appear in the MIME multi-part document, meaning the value in the lattermost configuration object will take precedence.

---
## Using instance ID as node name

When the `InstanceIdNodeName` feature gate is enabled, `nodeadm` will use the EC2 instance's ID (e.g. `i-abcdefg1234`) as the name of the `Node` object created by `kubelet`, instead of the EC2 instance's private DNS Name (e.g. `ip-192-168-1-1.ec2.internal`).
There are several benefits of doing this:
1. Your `Node` names are more meaningful in, for example, the output of `kubectl get nodes`.
2. The `Node` name, which is in the critical path of `kubelet` authentication, is non-volatile. While the private DNS name of an instance may change, its ID cannot.
3. The `ec2:DescribeInstances` permission can be removed from your node role's IAM policy; this is no longer necessary.

### To enable this feature, you will need to:
1. [Create a new worker node IAM role](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/create-node-role.html#create-worker-node-role)
    - ⚠️ **Note**: you should create a new role when migrating an existing cluster to avoid authentication failures on existing nodes.
2. Configure authorization for the role using username `system:node:{{SessionName}}`, for example by [creating an access entry](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/creating-access-entries.html) of type `EC2` for the new role:
    -  ⚠️ **Note**: in some cases, this can be done [using the aws-auth ConfigMap](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/auth-configmap.html#aws-auth-users) instead. This must be done using access entries if creating an [EKS Managed Node Group](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/managed-node-groups.html) with the role.
```
aws eks create-access-entry --cluster-name $CLUSTER_ARN --principal-arn $ROLE_CREATED_ABOVE --type EC2
```

3. Enable the feature gate in your user data:
```
---
apiVersion: node.eks.aws/v1alpha1
kind: NodeConfig
spec:
  featureGates:
    InstanceIdNodeName: true
```

---
## Enabling fast image pull (experimental)

When the `FastImagePull` feature gate is enabled, `nodeadm` will configure the container runtime to pull and unpack container images in parallel.

This has the benefit of potentially decreasing image pull time, at the cost of increased CPU, memory and EBS usage during image pull.

⚠️ **Note**: This flag will be ignored on instance sizes below a certain vCPU and memory threshold.

### To enable this feature:
1. Ensure your instance type is a larger instance type. Currently we recommend a 2xlarge instance or larger, but that value may change.
2. Make sure your workloads can tolerate the increased CPU and memory usage during image pull. This makes the most sense when you need to pull a very large container image early in a node's lifecycle, before other workloads are running.
3. Ensure you've configured additional EBS throughput for your instance root volume. We recommend at least 600MiB/s throughput. Below that value, you may see longer image pull times with this flag. Higher values up to 1000MiB/s and 16k IOPs may result in better performance.
4. Enable the feature gate in your user data:
```
---
apiVersion: node.eks.aws/v1alpha1
kind: NodeConfig
spec:
  featureGates:
    FastImagePull: true
```

---

## Configuring `containerd`

Additional `containerd` configuration can be supplied in your `NodeConfig`. The values in your inline TOML document will overwrite any default value set by `nodeadm`.

The following configuration object:
```
---
apiVersion: node.eks.aws/v1alpha1
kind: NodeConfig
spec:
  cluster: ...
  containerd:
    config: |
      [plugins."io.containerd.grpc.v1.cri".containerd]
      discard_unpacked_layers = false
```

Can be used to disable deletion of unpacked image layers in the `containerd` content store.

---

## Modifying container RLIMITs

If your workload requires different RLIMITs than the defaults, you can use the `baseRuntimeSpec` option of `containerd` to override them:

```
---
apiVersion: node.eks.aws/v1alpha1
kind: NodeConfig
spec:
  cluster: ...
  containerd:
    baseRuntimeSpec:
      process:
        rlimits:
          - type: RLIMIT_NOFILE
            soft: 1024
            hard: 1024
```
